# i-MSCP 1.3.x -- Errata

## Update to version 1.3.1

### IP addresses management

#### Configuration modes

It is now possible to choose the configuration mode for IP addresses that are added through the i-MSCP administration
interface. These modes are `auto` and `manual`.

Note that the `manual` mode is only appropriate on servers for which network interfaces are configured through DHCP, or
when you must set a specific netmask for the target IP address.

##### Auto configuration mode

In this mode, i-MSCP will automatically configures the target IP address if not already present in the `interfaces`
configuration file.

##### Manual configuration mode

In this mode, i-MSCP will remove any entry previously added for the target IP address in the `interfaces` configuration
file and skip its configuration. In such case, the configuration is left to the administrator.

#### Installer

It is no longer possible to configure additional IP addresses through the installer. From now, the installer will only
ask you for the server's primary IP addresse.

Note that by default, the server's primary IP address will always be set with the `manual` configuration mode. You're
free to change the configuration mode through the administration interface.

### Pages for disabled domains (accounts)

The pages for disabled domains have now their own skeleton directory (e.g. /etc/imscp/skel/domain_disabled_pages) which
is copied into the Web dir directory (e.g. /var/www/virtual) during installation

The pages for disabled domains are now stored outside of the customer home directories.

## Update to version 1.3.0

First of all, if you're updating from a version older than `1.2.16`, you should read the 1.2.x errata file. You can find
that file in the ./docs directory of the i-MSCP archive.

### Pre-update tasks

Prior to any update attempt, you must deactivate all plugins through the plugin interface. Once the update is done, you
must update all your plugins to latest available version, and re-activate them one by one. If something goes wrong with
a plugin, you can post in the plugins support section, and our development team will fix the issue as soon as possible.

### External mail feature

The external mail feature has been greatly simplified. From now, activating the external mail feature for a domain only
configures i-MSCP mail server to relay mail through external MX. The MX and SPF DNS resource records for external mail
servers are no longer created by i-MSCP. The customers must now create those DNS resource records by themselves, either
through their registrar interface if they use the DNS server provided by their registrar, or  through the custom DNS
resource records interface if their DNS are managed by i-MSCP server.

Note that following those changes, the external mail feature has been reseted, meaning that customers will have to
reactive it if needed.

### FTP usernames

VsFTPd doesn't support non-ascii characters in usernames. Therefore, to be compatible with VsFTPD and ProFTPD, the
internationalized domain names (IDN) that are part of FTP usernames will be converted to IDNA form. This means that
only ASCII usernames will be accepted.

You must not forgot to warn your customers about this change.

### i-MSCP master SQL user

Starting with this version, usage of SQL root user is prohibited. Instead, a dedicated SQL user for i-MSCP is created.
This change intends to solve issues with SQL servers that are configured to use passwordless authentication. With such
a configuration, password for the SQL root user is not set while package installation. Instead, the authentication is
done through a unix socket (a mapping between the local unix user and the SQL user is done.)

Note that while installing or reconfiguring i-MSCP, the installer will still ask you for the SQL root user info when
needed. However, this user will be only used to create and grant privileges to i-MSCP SQL users. This means that i-MSCP
will never store any data related to the SQL root user, nor change any of its properties.

Be also aware that in latest versions of the i-MSCP PhpMyAdmin package, usage of SQL root user has been prohibited for
security reasons. If you want connect to PhpMyAdmin to work on all databases, you should now use the i-MSCP master SQL
user.

### imscp-setup script

The `imscp-setup` script has been renamed to `imscp-reconfigure`.

### Parameters

#### Apache2 MOUNT_CUSTOMER_LOGS parameter

This new parameters allows the administrator to disable mount of customers httpd log directories. To disable them, you
can process as follow:

```
# sed -i'' 's/^\(MOUNT_CUSTOMER_LOGS\s\+=\).*/\1 no/' /etc/imscp/apache/apache.data
# cp /etc/imscp/apache/apache.data /etc/imscp/apache/apache.old.data
# perl /var/www/imscp/engine/setup/imscp-reconfigure -danv
```

Be aware that when mount of httpd log directories is disabled, the 'logs' directory located in the home directory of
customers is also removed.

### Permissions on customer's files (Http Web folders and Maildir)

Starting with this version, permissions on customer files are no longer set recursively by default. This allows to
avoid long running processes when a customer has thousands of files in his Web folders or mail directory.
 
To enable recursion, you must now pass the `--fix-permissions` option to the installer (or any script supporting it). 

The `--fix-permissions` option is supported by the following scripts:

 - imscp-autoinstall (i-MSCP installer)
 - imscp-reconfigure (i-MSCP reconfiguration script)
 - set-engine-permissions.pl (Script that set engine permissions)

Note: If you're migrating i-MSCP data from one server to another, you must not forget to set this option while running the
imscp-reconfigure script.

### imscp_mountall service

This `imscp_mountall` service mounts i-MSCP file systems when the server is rebooted. This service reads entries in a
fstab-like file located at `/etc/imscp/mounts/mounts.conf`. Unlike the entries that are added in the system fstab file,
the entries added in this file are processed in sequential order.

Third-party software components that want add entries in that file must use the API provided by the iMSCP::Mount
library.

### Custom DNS resource records

#### MX DNS resource record

It is now possible to setup MX DNS resource records through the custom DNS resource records interface. Be aware that
default MX DNS resource records, as the SPF DNS resource records, are removed only if the external mail feature is
turned on for the target domain.

#### DKIM/DMARC TXT DNS resource records

It is now possible to add DKIM/DMARC TXT DNS resource records.

#### SPF DNS resource record

To fulfit specific requirements, the SPF DNS resource record type has been added to the list of allowed custom DNS
resource records. It is now possible to setup custom SPF records using SPF and TXT DNS resource records. However you
must be aware that when a custom SPF DNS resource record is detected (SPF or TXT), the default SPF DNS resource records
set by i-MSCP are automatically removed.

**Note:** As per the RFC 7208, the SPF DNS resource record is deprecated. However it is still required in some contexts.

#### TTL (Time to Live)

It is now possible to set a TTL value for any custom DNS resource record. Previsously, this was only possible for the
SRV DNS resource record. The TTL value must be expressed in seconds. Note that for safety reasons, it is not allowed to
specify a value lower than 60 seconds.

#### Validation rules for the name, canonical name and target host fields

If you do not specify a fully-qualified domain name for one of these fields (domain name ending by DOT) they will be
automatically completed with your domain name (domain for which you add the record). For instance, if you add a DNS
resource record for the `test.tld` domain, and specify the following label for the `name` field:

    sub

it will be automatically completed with your domain name as follow:

    sub.test.tld.

You must also be aware that the out-of-zone records are not allowed. Simply put, if you specify:

    google.fr.

for the `name` field, it will not pass validations.

Anyway, even if that were allowed, the DNS resource record would be ignored by the DNS server. For instance, adding
such DNS resource record for the `test.tld` zone:

    google.fr.    IN    A    192.168.1.110

would lead to:

    root@jessie:/var/cache/bind# named-compilezone -i none -s relative -o - test.tld test.tld.db 
    test.tld.db:27: ignoring out-of-zone data (google.fr)
    zone test.tld/IN: loaded serial 2016031403
    ...
